## [​](#introduction)Introduction

Filament includes many CLI commands which generate files. This guide is to explain how you can customize the generated files. The vast majority of files that Filament generates are PHP classes. Filament uses [`nette/php-generator`](https://github.com/nette/php-generator) to generate classes programmatically, instead of using template files. The advantage of this is that there is much more flexibility in the generated files, which is important when you need to support as many different configuration options as Filament has. Each type of class is generated by a `ClassGenerator` class. Here are a list of `ClassGenerator` classes that Filament uses:

- `Filament\Actions\Commands\FileGenerators\ExporterClassGenerator` is used by the `make:filament-exporter` command.
- `Filament\Actions\Commands\FileGenerators\ImporterClassGenerator` is used by the `make:filament-importer` command.
- `Filament\Forms\Commands\FileGenerators\FieldClassGenerator` is used by the `make:filament-form-field` command.
- `Filament\Forms\Commands\FileGenerators\FormSchemaClassGenerator` is used by the `make:filament-form` command.
- `Filament\Forms\Commands\FileGenerators\LivewireFormComponentClassGenerator` is used by the `make:filament-livewire-form` command.
- `Filament\Infolists\Commands\FileGenerators\EntryClassGenerator` is used by the `make:filament-infolist-entry` command.
- `Filament\Commands\FileGenerators\Resources\Pages\ResourceCreateRecordPageClassGenerator` is used by the `make:filament-resource` and `make:filament-page` commands.
- `Filament\Commands\FileGenerators\Resources\Pages\ResourceCustomPageClassGenerator` is used by the `make:filament-resource` and `make:filament-page` commands.
- `Filament\Commands\FileGenerators\Resources\Pages\ResourceEditRecordPageClassGenerator` is used by the `make:filament-resource` and `make:filament-page` commands.
- `Filament\Commands\FileGenerators\Resources\Pages\ResourceListRecordsPageClassGenerator` is used by the `make:filament-resource` and `make:filament-page` commands.
- `Filament\Commands\FileGenerators\Resources\Pages\ResourceManageRecordsPageClassGenerator` is used by the `make:filament-resource` and `make:filament-page` commands.
- `Filament\Commands\FileGenerators\Resources\Pages\ResourceManageRelatedRecordsPageClassGenerator` is used by the `make:filament-resource` and `make:filament-page` commands.
- `Filament\Commands\FileGenerators\Resources\Pages\ResourceViewRecordPageClassGenerator` is used by the `make:filament-resource` and `make:filament-page` commands.
- `Filament\Commands\FileGenerators\Resources\SchemasResourceFormSchemaClassGenerator` is used by the `make:filament-resource` command.
- `Filament\Commands\FileGenerators\Resources\SchemasResourceInfolistSchemaClassGenerator` is used by the `make:filament-resource` command.
- `Filament\Commands\FileGenerators\Resources\SchemasResourceTableClassGenerator` is used by the `make:filament-resource` command.
- `Filament\Commands\FileGenerators\Resources\RelationManagerClassGenerator` is used by the `make:filament-relation-manager` command.
- `Filament\Commands\FileGenerators\Resources\ResourceClassGenerator` is used by the `make:filament-resource` command.
- `Filament\Commands\FileGenerators\ClusterClassGenerator` is used by the `make:filament-cluster` command.
- `Filament\Commands\FileGenerators\CustomPageClassGenerator` is used by the `make:filament-page` command.
- `Filament\Commands\FileGenerators\PanelProviderClassGenerator` is used by the `filament:install` and `make:filament-panel` commands.
- `Filament\Schemas\Commands\FileGenerators\ComponentClassGenerator` is used by the `make:filament-schema-component` command.
- `Filament\Schemas\Commands\FileGenerators\LivewireSchemaComponentClassGenerator` is used by the `make:filament-livewire-schema` command.
- `Filament\Schemas\Commands\FileGenerators\SchemaClassGenerator` is used by the `make:filament-schema` command.
- `Filament\Tables\Commands\FileGenerators\ColumnClassGenerator` is used by the `make:filament-table-column` command.
- `Filament\Tables\Commands\FileGenerators\LivewireTableComponentClassGenerator` is used by the `make:filament-livewire-table` command.
- `Filament\Tables\Commands\FileGenerators\TableClassGenerator` is used by the `make:filament-table` command.
- `Filament\Widgets\Commands\FileGenerators\ChartWidgetClassGenerator` is used by the `make:filament-widget` command.
- `Filament\Widgets\Commands\FileGenerators\CustomWidgetClassGenerator` is used by the `make:filament-widget` command.
- `Filament\Widgets\Commands\FileGenerators\StatsOverviewWidgetClassGenerator` is used by the `make:filament-widget` command.
- `Filament\Widgets\Commands\FileGenerators\TableWidgetClassGenerator` is used by the `make:filament-widget` command.


## [​](#the-anatomy-of-a-class-generator)The anatomy of a class generator

The best way to learn about class generators is to look at their source code. They all follow very similar patterns, and use the features from [`nette/php-generator`](https://github.com/nette/php-generator). Here are some methods to look out for:

- `__construct()` accepts the parameters that are passed into the generator. This is all the information you have access to as context for generating the class.
- `getImports()` returns the imports that are used in the class being generated. This is not an exclusive list, and imports can be added while generating properties and methods as well, if that is easier than providing them in advance.
- `getExtends()` returns the fully qualified name of the class being extended.
- `addTraitsToClass()` is used to add traits to the class being generated. The `Class` object from `nette/php-generator` is passed in as a parameter.
- `addPropertiesToClass()` is used to add properties to the class being generated. The `Class` object from `nette/php-generator` is passed in as a parameter.
- `add*PropertyToClass()` methods are used to add a single property to the class being generated. The `Class` object from `nette/php-generator` is passed in as a parameter. They are usually called from `addPropertiesToClass()`.
- `addMethodsToClass()` is used to add methods to the class being generated. The `Class` object from `nette/php-generator` is passed in as a parameter.
- `add*MethodToClass()` methods are used to add a single method to the class being generated. The `Class` object from `nette/php-generator` is passed in as a parameter. They are usually called from `addMethodsToClass()`.


## [​](#replacing-a-class-generator)Replacing a class generator

To be able to make changes to how a file is generated, you need to identify the correct class generator (see the list above) and replace it. To replace it, create a new class that extends the class generator you want to replace. For example, if you want to replace the `ResourceClassGenerator`, create a new class like this:

Copy

```
namespace App\Filament\Commands\FileGenerators\Resources;

use Filament\Commands\FileGenerators\Resources\ResourceClassGenerator as BaseResourceClassGenerator;

class ResourceClassGenerator extends BaseResourceClassGenerator
{
   // ...
}

```

You also need to register it as a binding in the service container. You can do this in a service provider such as `AppServiceProvider`:

Copy

```
use App\Filament\Commands\FileGenerators\Resources\ResourceClassGenerator;
use Filament\Commands\FileGenerators\Resources\ResourceClassGenerator as BaseResourceClassGenerator;
use Illuminate\Support\ServiceProvider;

class AppServiceProvider extends ServiceProvider
{
    public function register()
    {
        // ...
  
        $this->app->bind(BaseResourceClassGenerator::class, ResourceClassGenerator::class);
  
        // ...
    }
}

```

## [​](#customizing-an-existing-property-or-method-in-a-class)Customizing an existing property or method in a class

While viewing the source code of the class generator, locate the property or method you want to customize. You can override it in your class generator by simply defining a new method with the same name. For example, here is a method you can find for adding the `$navigationIcon` property to a resource class:

Copy

```
use BackedEnum;
use Filament\Support\Icons\Heroicon;
use Nette\PhpGenerator\ClassType;
use Nette\PhpGenerator\Literal;

protected function addNavigationIconPropertyToClass(ClassType $class): void
{
    $this->namespace->addUse(BackedEnum::class);
    $this->namespace->addUse(Heroicon::class);

    $property = $class->addProperty('navigationIcon', new Literal('Heroicon::OutlinedRectangleStack'))
        ->setProtected()
        ->setStatic()
        ->setType('string|BackedEnum|null');
    $this->configureNavigationIconProperty($property);
}

```

You could override that method to change its behavior, or you could just override the `configureNavigationIconProperty()` method to hook into how the property is configured. For example, make the property `public` instead of `protected`:

Copy

```
use Nette\PhpGenerator\Property;

protected function configureNavigationIconProperty(Property $property): void
{
    $property->setPublic();
}

```

## [​](#adding-a-new-property-or-method-to-a-class)Adding a new property or method to a class

To add a new property or method to a class, you can do this in the `addPropertiesToClass()` or `addMethodsToClass()` methods. To inherit the existing properties instead of replacing them, make sure you call `parent::addPropertiesToClass()` or `parent::addMethodsToClass()` at the start of your method. For example, here is how to add a new property to a resource class:

Copy

```
use Nette\PhpGenerator\ClassType;
use Nette\PhpGenerator\Literal;

protected function addPropertiesToClass(ClassType $class): void
{
    parent::addPropertiesToClass($class);

    $class->addProperty('navigationSort', 10)
        ->setProtected()
        ->setStatic()
        ->setType('?int');
}

```

[Edit this page on GitHub](https://github.com/filamentphp/filament/edit/5.x/docs/09-advanced/04-file-generation.md)

## Sponsored by

[https://kirschbaumdevelopment.com/solutions/filament-development](https://kirschbaumdevelopment.com/solutions/filament-development "Kirschbaum")[https://www.agiledrop.com/laravel?utm_source=filament](https://www.agiledrop.com/laravel?utm_source=filament "Agiledrop")[https://baiz.ai](https://baiz.ai "Baiz.ai")[https://serpapi.com/?utm_source=filamentphp](https://serpapi.com/?utm_source=filamentphp "SerpApi")[https://cmsmax.com?ref=filamentphp.com](https://cmsmax.com?ref=filamentphp.com "CMS Max")[https://mailtrap.io/email-sending?utm_source=community&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=filament](https://mailtrap.io/email-sending?utm_source=community&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=filament "Mailtrap")[Your logo here](https://github.com/sponsors/danharrin)

[Enum tricks](/docs/5.x/advanced/enums)[Modular architecture (DDD)](/docs/5.x/advanced/modular-architecture)

⌘I

[github](https://github.com/filamentphp/filament)[bluesky](https://bsky.app/profile/filamentphp.com)[x](https://twitter.com/filamentphp)[discord](https://filamentphp.com/discord)[linkedin](https://linkedin.com/company/filamentphp)

[Powered by](https://www.mintlify.com?utm_campaign=poweredBy&utm_medium=referral&utm_source=filament-34a8cf01)
